# Agenda

1. [File input anatomy](https://github.com/openui/open-ui/issues/91#issuecomment-637000543) [Emilio Cobos Alvarez / Greg Whitworth]
2. [Checkbox state indicators](https://github.com/openui/open-ui/issues/93) [Nicholas Rice]
3. [What should pressing escape do with the selected value for select?](https://github.com/openui/open-ui/issues/102) [Greg Whitworth]

### Attendees

* Mason Freed, Google Chrome
* Aneesha Kommineni, Microsoft Fluent UI
* Daniel Clark, Microsoft Edge
* Greg Whitworth, SalesForce
* Emilio Cobos Alvarez, Mozilla Firefox
* Nicholas Rice, Microsoft FastDNA
* Chance Strickland, Modulz & Reach UI

## Notes

### Discord
We have created a discord instance to allow general discussion in between our 
...bi-weekly meetings. You can join it here: https://discord.gg/xcDQbHE

### File Anatomy Input
Github Issue: https://github.com/openui/open-ui/issues/91#issuecomment-637000543

emilio: This is about a file input, this started in the CSSWG
... we should probably build something standard, people said that it makes sense
... We spent a ton of time bikeshedding the name
... Like gregwhitworth pointed to Open UI, it made a good fit

gregwhitworth: While Emilio in his PR has begun looking into the other aspects
...of the file input there is an interop need now for Firefox for specific to this 
...button. Looking across the landscape, many don't name this part but of those that
...do there is:

1. File Picker
2. File Selector

gregwhitworth: As noted in the issue, Roy Orbison noted that the HTML and JS specs refer to 
this control as selection so he prefers selection.
gregwhitworth: Everyone on the thread and in the CSSWG it is apparent that denoting that it 
...is a button is valuable so either should be appended with `button`.

masonfreed: it would be good if the select button would align with this.

emilio: Select button? What are you referring to because at times the select 
...can be the whole button or just the little arrow.

gregwhitworth: in a side conversation that we've been having we've been discussing 
...the naming of the anatomy of select for the same reasons you're looking at file. One 
...that I've currently got labeled is just a generic button. So, we should consider aligning 
...the action and button much like we did with file here.

masonfreed: Emilio, it would be good if you can review the PR for the anatomy

gregwhitworth: The PR is here: https://github.com/openui/open-ui/pull/99#issuecomment-639110556

Proposed Resolution: Use the name file-selector-button

RESOLUTION: Use the name file-selector-button for the file input button part

ACTION: Greg Whitworth to update the CSSWG issue on our resolution

### Checkbox state indicators
Github Issue: https://github.com/openui/open-ui/issues/93

nick: I was looking at the anatomy, there are two different states - checked or unchecked or indeterminate
... I made those as two distinct parts and whether that should be a single state indicator and style it differently or if it should be seperate parts for each state

gregwhitworth: did you do research across libs to see what they do?

nick: in my personal experience I've done both, but I can do more research in the issue

chance: For reach UI, we settled on one part and have it change based on state so that it's effectively a tri-state

masonfreed: mentally I think of it as a tri-state

emilio: does the tri-state match what browsers do?

nick: they can

chance: you also have the aria attribute, it's also tri-state so there 
...will be some consistency if we only have one

emilio: as long as there is one precedent then that's fine

gregwhitworth: It sounds like we're leaning towards having a single 
...part with tri-state to change content/style.

ACTION: nicholasrice to do research across libs and for us to resolve in the issue

### What should pressing escape do with the selected value for select?
Github Issue: https://github.com/openui/open-ui/issues/102

gregwhitworth: Summarizes the differences across browsers and 
...component libraries. However the majority of libraries (8/13) 
...reverted to the previously selected option. Looking at 
...Windows settings it does the same thing as those 8. Safari 
...reverts as well while Chrome/Edge/Firefox select on arrow 
...change. I'm not sure about native selects on MacOS, anyone?

masonfreed: Just tested it in a native application and it reverts.

gregwhitworth: Then I propose that we revert. To put it a bit more 
...specifically when you traverse options via keyboard this does not 
...change the select's value, only invocation (eg: enter/pointerup/space)

Proposed Resolution: When pressing up or down the select value is not updated to the currently highlighted option
Resolved: When pressing up or down the select value is not updated to the currently highlighted option
